---
layout: post
title:  The future of Music
date:   2017-04-09 13:25:00 -0800
excerpt: Unless we fundamentally change the definition of music, we cannot really create new music. When it's all composed and done to death by machines, a new definition for music will be born. Or maybe we ll just deeply learn to appreaciate silence.
---
The newer music softwares, plugins and sampled sound packs seem to be pushing for products that almost make the music for you. It's certainly not marketed that way. In fact they market it as if they are depending on 'your' creativity to make the music. But if you actually use the products, you'll realize that a lot of it is already done for you. The sounds are 'Massive' (no pun consciously intended), well layered, complex and beautiful. The sample packs are neatly categorized into transitions, fillins, endings, tails, intros, soundscapes, textures etc. As if to say, download all this and press a button or two, and you re good to go. Focus more on your Soundcloud page and your Facebook self propagation. It's okay to not know music theory, it's okay to not put in hours of practice for years to perfect your playing ability. Just download this 'toy' and become a musician today.

I probably shouldnt rant about so vehemently. I ve created something called Scribbletune that let's you 'generate' music too. But at least it depends on you actually having some music theory knowledge and some programming skills that you must necessarily combine. Without it, it's not even a toy and might be actually bad and you re better off with music toys that the bigwigs in the industry are selling these days by the truckload.

If this continues (and it most certainly will) in time what I can compose will just be a slight variation of what you can compose. It wont be something meaningful nor unique. Talking about unique, what is unique? Most of the music is already done. What's coming out now is just a variation of what already exists. Unless we fundamentally change the definition of music, we cannot really create new music. I feel music created via computers will bring about that change. When it's all programmatically composed and done to death that way, maybe some new music will be born. Or maybe we ll just deeply learn to appreaciate silence. 
